# Storing UTF-8 Encoded Text with Strings

New Rustaceans commonly get stuck on strings for a combination of three reasons:

- Rust's propensity for exposing possible errors
- Strings being a more complicated data structure than many programmers give them credit for
- UTF-8

We discuss strings in the context of collections because strings are implemented as a collection of bytes, plus some methods to provide useful functionality when those bytes are interpreted as text. In this section, we'll talk about the operations on `String` that every collection type has, such as creating, updating and reading. We'll also discuss the ways in which `String` is different from the other collections, namely, how indexing into a `String` is complicated by the differences between how people and computers interpret `String` data.

# Defining Strings

Rust has only one string type in the core language, which is the string slice `str` that is usually seen in its borrowed form, `&str`. We talked about string slices, which are references to some UTF-8 encoded string data stored elsewhere. String literals, for example, are stored in the program's binary and are therefore string slices.

The `String` type, which is provided by Rust's standard library rather than coded into the core language, is a growable, mutable, owned, UTF-8 encoded string type. When Rustaceans refer to "strings" in Rust, they might be referring to either the `String` or the string slice `&str` types, not just one of those types. Both `String` and string slices are UTF-8 encoded.

# Creating a New String

Many of the same operations available with `Vec<T>` are available with `String` as well because `String` is actually implemented as a wrapper around a vector of bytes with some extra guarantees, restrictions, and capabilities.

# Updating Strings

A `String` can grow in size and its contents can change, just like the contents of a `Vec<T>`, if you push more data into it. In addition, you can conveniently use the `+` operator of the `format!` macro to concatenate `String` values.

## Concatenating with `+` or `format!`
```Rust
    let s1 = String::from("Hello, ");
    let s2 = String::from("world!");
    let s3 = s1 + &s2; // note s1 has been moved here and can no longer be used
```
The string `s3` will contain `Hello, world!`. The reason `s1` is no longer valid after the addition, and the reason we used a reference to `s2`, has to do with the signature of the method that’s called when we use the `+` operator. The `+` operator uses the add method, whose signature looks something like this:

```Rust
    fn add(self, s: &str) -> String {
```

In the standard library, you’ll see add defined using generics and associated types. Here, we’ve substituted in concrete types, which is what happens when we call this method with String values.

First, `s2` has an `&`, meaning that we’re adding a reference of the second string to the first string. This is because of the `s` parameter in the `add` function: We can only add a string slice to a `String`; we can’t add two `String` values together. But wait—the type of `&s2` is `&String`, not `&str`, as specified in the second parameter to `add`. So why does it compile?

The reason we’re able to use `&s2` in the call to `add` is that the compiler can coerce the `&String` argument into a `&str`. When we call the `add` method, Rust uses a deref coercion, which here turns `&s2` into `&s2[..]`. We’ll discuss deref coercion in more depth in Chapter 15. Because `add` does not take ownership of the `s` parameter, `s2` will still be a valid `String` after this operation.

Second, we can see in the signature that `add` takes ownership of `self` because `self` does *not* have an `&`. This means `s1` in Listing 8-18 will be moved into the `add` call and will no longer be valid after that. So, although `let s3 = s1 + &s2;` looks like it will copy both strings and create a new one, this statement actually takes ownership of `s1`, appends a copy of the contents of `s2`, and then returns ownership of the result. In other words, it looks like it’s making a lot of copies, but it isn’t; the implementation is more efficient than copying.

The `format!` macro works like `println!`, but instead of printing the output to the screen, it returns a `String` with the contents. The version of the code using `format!` is much easier to read, and the code generated by the `format!` macro uses references so that this call doesn't take ownership of any of its parameters.

# Indexing into Strings

In many other programming languages, accessing individual characters in a string by referencing them by index is a valid and common operation. However, if you try to acess parts of a `String` using indexing syntax in Rust, you'll get an error.

Rust strings don't supporting indexing. To understand that we need to discuss how Rust stores strings in memory. This is discussed in the section [Internal Representation](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch08-02-strings.html#internal-representation) in the rustbook.

# Slicing Strings

Indexing into a string is often a bad idea because it's not clear what the return type of the string-indexing operation should be: a byte value, a character, a grapheme cluster, or a string slice. If you really need to use indices to create string slices, therefore, Rust asks you to be more specific.

Rather than indexing using `[]` with a single number, you can use `[]` with a range to create a string slice containing particular bytes.

# Iterating over Strings

The best way to operate on pieces of strings is to be explicit about whether you want characters or bytes. For individual Unicode scalar values, use the `chars` method. Calling `chars` on “Зд” separates out and returns two values of type `char`, and you can iterate over the result to access each element.

Getting grapheme clusters from strings, as with the Devanagari script, is complex, so this functionality is not provided by the standard library.

# Handling the Complexities of Strings

To summarize, strings are complicated. Different programming languages make different choices about how to present this complexity to the programmer. Rust has chosen to make the correct handling of `String` data the default behavior for all Rust programs, which means programmers have to put more thought into handling UTF-8 data up front. This trade-off exposes more of the complexity of strings than is apparent in other programming languages, but it prevents you from having to handle errors involving non-ASCII characters later in your development life cycle.

The good news is that the standard library offers a lot of functionality built off the `String` and `&str` types to help handle these complex situations correctly. Be sure to check out the documentation for useful methods like `contains` for searching in a string and `replace` for substituting parts of a string with another string.
